# ITI-104

The [ITI-104 (Patient Identity Feed)](https://fhir.ch/ig/ch-epr-fhir/iti-104.html) transaction allows a _Patient Identity Source_ actor (e.g. a primary system) to add patient data to the eMedication service. This provides a RESTful equivalent to the [ITI-44](iti44.html) transaction and hence the same business logic and restrictions as for the PIXv3 transaction apply.

## Allowed Operations

The eMedication service allows only an `Add or revise Patient` message and, in any case, it will just create (if needed) the patient registration in the eMedication service and prior forwarding an ITI-44 request to CARA's MPI if no patient record is present there. As such, the eMedication service itself neither performs any data reconciliation nor acts as a pure proxy to the PIX service of the community. The sole purpose of this transaction is to allow a primary system to register a patient on the eMedication service, please read the details on the [ITI-44](iti44.html) page of this service guide.

## Request Message

### Identifiers

All identifiers are conveyed within the `Patient.identifier` element of the request's payload. Because the request is translated to an ITI-44 request internally, certain expectations apply to its content:

- One and only one EPR-SPID identifier is expected.
- Either one local PID or an MPID for the patient are expected to be present. At least one of them and, optionally, both, and one must match the `identifier` query parameter.
- Only the following non-local PIDs that are recognizable by the eMedication service as such are allowed to be conveyed, as profiled by [CHPIXmPatientFeed](https://fhir.ch/ig/ch-epr-fhir/StructureDefinition-ch-pixm-patient-feed.html):
    - Insurance card number (VEKA)
    - AVS number

## Response Message
Because the eMedication service does not support transactions that return a `Patient` resource, and because no data reconciliation is done, it was decided that in order to avoid misunderstandings or false assumptions, the eMedication service shall never return a `Patient` resource as a response. Hence, depending on the expressed preferences in the HTTP request, either an `OperationOutcome` or simply an HTTP code will be returned in case of success, and only an `OperationOutcome` in case of failure.
